README.md, before:

# Codelens AI

**Agent Productivity-to-Cost Correlator** — Is your AI coding agent actually shipping code?

Codelens AI ties Claude Code token usage to actual git output. It reads your local Claude Code session files, correlates them with git commits by timestamp, and serves a dashboard answering: *"Am I getting ROI from my AI coding agent?"*

- One command, zero config
- All data stays local
- Works with any git repo where you've used Claude Code

## Installation

### Option 1: Run directly (no install)

```bash
npx claude-roi
```

### Option 2: Install globally

```bash
# npm
npm install -g claude-roi

# pnpm
pnpm add -g claude-roi

# yarn
yarn global add claude-roi
```

Then run anywhere:

```bash
claude-roi
```

### Option 3: Clone and run from source

```bash
git clone https://github.com/Akshat2634/Codelens-AI.git
cd Codelens-AI

# Install dependencies (pick one)
npm install
# or
pnpm install
# or
yarn install

# Run it
node src/index.js
```

## Prerequisites

- **Node.js >= 18** — [Download](https://nodejs.org/)
- **Git** — installed and configured with `user.name` and `user.email`
- **Claude Code** — you must have used [Claude Code](https://claude.com/claude-code) at least once so session data exists at `~/.claude/projects/`

## Quick Start

```bash
npx claude-roi
```

This parses your `~/.claude/projects/` session data, analyzes your git repos, and opens a dashboard at `http://localhost:3457`.

## What It Measures

| Metric                | Description                                                     |
| --------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Cost per Commit**   | How much each AI-assisted commit costs in tokens                |
| **Line Survival Rate**| % of AI-written lines that survive 24h without being rewritten  |
| **Orphaned Sessions** | Sessions with 10+ messages that produced zero commits           |
| **ROI Grade (A-F)**   | Composite score based on tokens-per-commit and survival rate    |
| **Model Comparison**  | Efficiency breakdown across Opus, Sonnet, and Haiku             |
| **Branch Awareness**  | What % of AI commits landed on production                       |
| **Peak Hours**        | Hour-of-day x day-of-week productivity heatmap                  |

## CLI Options

```bash
claude-roi                        # default: last 30 days, port 3457
claude-roi --days 90              # look back 90 days
claude-roi --port 8080            # custom port
claude-roi --no-open              # don't auto-open browser
claude-roi --json                 # dump all metrics as JSON to stdout
claude-roi --project techops      # filter to a specific project
claude-roi --refresh              # force full re-parse (ignore cache)
```

## Dashboard

The dashboard includes:

- **Hero stats** — total cost, commits shipped, cost per commit, ROI grade
- **Smart insights** — auto-generated observations about your usage patterns
- **Cost vs Output timeline** — dual-axis chart of daily cost and lines added
- **Model comparison** — cost breakdown by Claude model
- **Session length analysis** — which session sizes have the best ROI
- **Productivity heatmap** — GitHub-style grid showing when you're most productive
- **Sessions table** — sortable, expandable table with per-session metrics and matched commits

## How It Works

1. **Parses** JSONL session files from `~/.claude/projects/`
2. **Analyzes** git history from each repo you've worked in with Claude
3. **Correlates** sessions to commits by timestamp (during session + 30min buffer)
4. **Calculates** cost using Anthropic token pricing (input, output, cache read/write)
5. **Serves** an interactive dashboard on localhost

### Caching

Parsed session data is cached at `~/.cache/claude-roi/parsed-sessions.json`. On subsequent runs, only new or modified JSONL files are re-parsed, making startup near-instant. Use `--refresh` to force a full re-parse.

### Cost Calculation

Token costs are version-aware and calculated per model:

| Model | Input | Output | Cache Read | Cache Write |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Opus 4.5/4.6 | $5/M | $25/M | $0.50/M | $6.25/M |
| Opus 4.0/4.1 | $15/M | $75/M | $1.50/M | $18.75/M |
| Sonnet 3.7/4.0/4.5/4.6 | $3/M | $15/M | $0.30/M | $3.75/M |
| Haiku 4.5 | $1/M | $5/M | $0.10/M | $1.25/M |
| Haiku 3.5 | $0.80/M | $4/M | $0.08/M | $1.00/M |
| Haiku 3 | $0.25/M | $1.25/M | $0.03/M | $0.30/M |

### Line Survival

Line survival uses an approximate heuristic: if lines added in commit A are deleted by a subsequent commit on the same file within 24 hours, they're counted as "churned." This is not git-blame-based tracking and survival rates are rounded to the nearest 5%.

## Project Structure

```
Codelens-AI/
├── package.json
├── README.md
├── .gitignore
└── src/
    ├── index.js          # CLI entry point
    ├── claude-parser.js  # Parse Claude Code JSONL session files
    ├── cache.js          # Parsed data caching layer
    ├── git-analyzer.js   # Parse git log with branch awareness
    ├── correlator.js     # Match sessions to commits by timestamp
    ├── metrics.js        # Calculate ROI metrics and insights
    ├── server.js         # Express server + API routes
    └── dashboard.html    # Single-file dashboard (inline CSS/JS)
```

## Contributing

Contributions welcome! Here's how to get started:

```bash
# 1. Fork the repo on GitHub

# 2. Clone your fork
git clone https://github.com/YOUR_USERNAME/Codelens-AI.git
cd Codelens-AI

# 3. Install dependencies
npm install

# 4. Run in dev mode (no auto-open browser)
node src/index.js --no-open

# 5. Make your changes and test
node src/index.js --json | head -30   # verify JSON output
node src/index.js --no-open           # test dashboard at localhost:3457

# 6. Submit a pull request
```

### Ideas for contributions

- Support for other AI coding tools (Copilot, Cursor, etc.)
- Git blame-based line survival tracking (more accurate than the 24h heuristic)
- Export dashboard as PDF/PNG
- Historical trend tracking across multiple runs
- Team/multi-user support
- Custom pricing configuration via CLI flag or config file

## Privacy

All data stays on your machine. The only network requests are for Chart.js and Inter font from CDNs. No telemetry, no data collection.

## License

MIT

Commit message:

chore: Update project structure and documentation
- Added .claude/ to .gitignore and .npmignore to exclude Claude-related files.
- Introduced new documentation files: CONTRIBUTING.md, CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md, SECURITY.md, and CHANGELOG.md for better project guidelines and community standards.
- Updated package.json with repository and bug report links.
- Created GitHub issue and pull request templates for streamlined contributions.
- Added CI workflow for automated testing and syntax checks.

README.md, after:

# Codelens AI

**Agent Productivity-to-Cost Correlator** — Is your AI coding agent actually shipping code?

Codelens AI ties Claude Code token usage to actual git output. It reads your local Claude Code session files, correlates them with git commits by timestamp, and serves a dashboard answering: *"Am I getting ROI from my AI coding agent?"*

- One command, zero config
- All data stays local
- Works with any git repo where you've used Claude Code

## Installation

### Option 1: Run directly (no install)

```bash
npx claude-roi
```

### Option 2: Install globally

```bash
# npm
npm install -g claude-roi

# pnpm
pnpm add -g claude-roi

# yarn
yarn global add claude-roi
```

Then run anywhere:

```bash
claude-roi
```

### Option 3: Clone and run from source

```bash
git clone https://github.com/Akshat2634/Codelens-AI.git
cd Codelens-AI

# Install dependencies (pick one)
npm install
# or
pnpm install
# or
yarn install

# Run it
node src/index.js
```

## Prerequisites

- **Node.js >= 18** — [Download](https://nodejs.org/)
- **Git** — installed and configured with `user.name` and `user.email`
- **Claude Code** — you must have used [Claude Code](https://claude.com/claude-code) at least once so session data exists at `~/.claude/projects/`

## Quick Start

```bash
npx claude-roi
```

This parses your `~/.claude/projects/` session data, analyzes your git repos, and opens a dashboard at `http://localhost:3457`.

## What It Measures

| Metric                | Description                                                     |
| --------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Cost per Commit**   | How much each AI-assisted commit costs in tokens                |
| **Line Survival Rate**| % of AI-written lines that survive 24h without being rewritten  |
| **Orphaned Sessions** | Sessions with 10+ messages that produced zero commits           |
| **ROI Grade (A-F)**   | Composite score based on tokens-per-commit and survival rate    |
| **Model Comparison**  | Efficiency breakdown across Opus, Sonnet, and Haiku             |
| **Branch Awareness**  | What % of AI commits landed on production                       |
| **Peak Hours**        | Hour-of-day x day-of-week productivity heatmap                  |

## CLI Options

```bash
claude-roi                        # default: last 30 days, port 3457
claude-roi --days 90              # look back 90 days
claude-roi --port 8080            # custom port
claude-roi --no-open              # don't auto-open browser
claude-roi --json                 # dump all metrics as JSON to stdout
claude-roi --project techops      # filter to a specific project
claude-roi --refresh              # force full re-parse (ignore cache)
```

## Dashboard

The dashboard includes:

- **Hero stats** — total cost, commits shipped, cost per commit, ROI grade
- **Smart insights** — auto-generated observations about your usage patterns
- **Cost vs Output timeline** — dual-axis chart of daily cost and lines added
- **Model comparison** — cost breakdown by Claude model
- **Session length analysis** — which session sizes have the best ROI
- **Productivity heatmap** — GitHub-style grid showing when you're most productive
- **Sessions table** — sortable, expandable table with per-session metrics and matched commits

## How It Works

1. **Parses** JSONL session files from `~/.claude/projects/`
2. **Analyzes** git history from each repo you've worked in with Claude
3. **Correlates** sessions to commits by timestamp (during session + 30min buffer)
4. **Calculates** cost using Anthropic token pricing (input, output, cache read/write)
5. **Serves** an interactive dashboard on localhost

### Caching

Parsed session data is cached at `~/.cache/claude-roi/parsed-sessions.json`. On subsequent runs, only new or modified JSONL files are re-parsed, making startup near-instant. Use `--refresh` to force a full re-parse.

### Cost Calculation

Token costs are version-aware and calculated per model:

| Model | Input | Output | Cache Read | Cache Write |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Opus 4.5/4.6 | $5/M | $25/M | $0.50/M | $6.25/M |
| Opus 4.0/4.1 | $15/M | $75/M | $1.50/M | $18.75/M |
| Sonnet 3.7/4.0/4.5/4.6 | $3/M | $15/M | $0.30/M | $3.75/M |
| Haiku 4.5 | $1/M | $5/M | $0.10/M | $1.25/M |
| Haiku 3.5 | $0.80/M | $4/M | $0.08/M | $1.00/M |
| Haiku 3 | $0.25/M | $1.25/M | $0.03/M | $0.30/M |

### Line Survival

Line survival uses an approximate heuristic: if lines added in commit A are deleted by a subsequent commit on the same file within 24 hours, they're counted as "churned." This is not git-blame-based tracking and survival rates are rounded to the nearest 5%.

## Project Structure

```
Codelens-AI/
├── package.json
├── README.md
├── .gitignore
└── src/
    ├── index.js          # CLI entry point
    ├── claude-parser.js  # Parse Claude Code JSONL session files
    ├── cache.js          # Parsed data caching layer
    ├── git-analyzer.js   # Parse git log with branch awareness
    ├── correlator.js     # Match sessions to commits by timestamp
    ├── metrics.js        # Calculate ROI metrics and insights
    ├── server.js         # Express server + API routes
    └── dashboard.html    # Single-file dashboard (inline CSS/JS)
```

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please see [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for development setup, guidelines, and ideas for contributions.

## Privacy

All data stays on your machine. The only network requests are for Chart.js and Inter font from CDNs. No telemetry, no data collection.

## License

MIT
